# Solid Style to CSS Plugin

The `solid-style-to-css` plugin, found in the `vite-custom-plugins` directory, is designed to convert the `style={{}}` properties into CSS class names. This plugin extracts styles from the `style`, generates unique class names, and moves the styles into a CSS file (for production builds) or a style block (during development). This optimization improves performance by minimizing inline styles and utilizing CSS for better caching and reusability.

## Key Features

* Automatically converts `style={{}}` properties into CSS classes.
* Ensures unique class names to avoid style conflicts.

## Configuration Options

The plugin offers several configuration options to customize its behavior:

* **`suppressWarnings`** (boolean): Suppresses any warnings generated by the plugin.

## Example

Consider the following source code:

```jsx
const Component = () => {
    return <div style={{ width: '50%', height: '50%' }} />
}
```

The plugin will automatically transform the `div` element into:

```html
<div class="_div_12345"></div>
```

The generated `_div_12345` class will contain the following CSS:

```css
._div_12345 {
    width: 50%;
    height: 50%;
}
```

## Known Behavior

### Dynamic `style` Properties

When signals are used to dynamically update a style property at runtime, those properties will not be converted into CSS classes.

For instance, consider the following example:

```jsx
const Component = () => {
    const [bgColor, setBgColor] = createSignal('red');

    return <div style={{ height: '50%', 'background-color': bgColor() }} />
}
```

The plugin will transform the `div` element as follows:

```html
<div class="_div_12345" style="background-color: red;"></div>
```

In this case, the `background-color` property remains inline and will be updated dynamically using the `bgColor` signal.

The generated `_div_12345` class will include only the static styles:

```css
._div_12345 {
    height: 50%;
}
```

### Combining `class` with `style` properties

The plugin assigns unique CSS classes to elements with transformed `style` properties, but there are limitations when combining `style` with the `class` property.

Currently, using the `style` property alongside a spread operator that includes a `class` property is not supported. For example:

```jsx
const Component = () => {
    const additionalProperties = {
        class: 'test-class'
    };

    return <div style={{ height: '50%' }} {...additionalProperties} />;
};
```

In this case, the `style` property for the `div` element will not be transformed. Additionally, if the `suppressWarnings` flag is not set to `true` in the plugin's initialization within the `vite.config.mts` file, a warning will be displayed:

```bash
[vite-style-to-css-plugin] warning: The JSX element <div> contains a "style" attribute along with a spread 
operator ({...additionalProperties}). This combination is not supported, so the styles for this element will not be transformed.
```

Other combinations are supported, and the `style` property will be correctly transformed into a CSS class. For instance:

```jsx
import MyCSSModule from './MyCSSModule.module.css';

const Component = () => {
    const [dynamicClass, setDynamicClass] = createSignal('test-class-1');

    return (
        <div
            style={{ height: '50%' }}
            class={dynamicClass() + ' ' + MyCSSModule.AnotherTestClass + ' test-class-3'}
        />
    );
};
```

`MyCSSModule.module.css`:

```css
.test-class-2 { }
```

This will be transformed into:

```html
<div class="test-class-1 test-class-2 test-class-3 _div_12345"></div>
```

The generated class will always be appended at the end of the `class` attribute.
